Theory is a set of recordings, descriptions and hypothesis of a set of phenomenas.

This is the description process that started in the beggining of conciousness in the universe and the process that takes place 
with the emergence of every single new life in the universe.

In the very beggining we have only observation, the one that follows the start of our existence and interaction with other things
that not ourselves. 

And then, once we have a memory system, as we observe we build a data base, a set of recordingns. Up from this point we not only
observe the present, but also the footprints of the past in our brains.

By observing this set of recordings and its subsets we usually find patterns. Well, we then usually formalize this patterns in the
form of written descriptions, using math to give a quantitative description when is possible. Well, within this process 
of practically non voluntary existence, observation and voluntary description of the things around us, we create also the notion
that we understand what the universe is about, that observing and taking notes about it and using this to take advantage of universe means
we undertand what the universe is. But at same point one other thing will come into play: our incomprehension and lack of saying about what is going on: things exist, we are part of those things,
but we didn't have any saying about any of this nor we have control about what is really going to happen. Even we have been exerting
some level of influnce and control over things around us, at some point we will perceive we can't explain how things started.

Well, not beeing so far able to resolve this situation we moved on, growing our set of recordings and descriptions. 
But we were let we the impression that there may be other things that exist, just like the description of the beggining of the Universe,
but that we are not aware of. Because we observe we exist up from a specific moment in time, although we can't observe or describe this happening.
This fundamental problem was likely the first thing we were not able to observe or describe. 

Then we came up with the ideia that there may be things we
do not percieve but that exist. Also, another hypothesis, that some of those things come into play into our lives and, another one,
that bacause of that we can be perceive them if not in a natural way, but in a specific set of condictions. 
If we make these conditions known and controlled we have then an experiment.  

And then we came up with the thing we call a hypothesis. This is an inversion of the original process caused by our
frustations about what we got of it. Instead of just describing what we can perceive, we started also creating descriptions
for things we didn't observe but that we have the impression it should exist. For example, we could have limited ourselves to
the pure descriptions of the process of illumination, without concern about the nature of a possible substance called light that
would be involved in this process of illumination. But, by analyzing our data, we saw so many similarities between illumination and
other phenomena in nature that involed particles that we were compelled to ask if illumination also involves a substance made up of particles?

Well, then at some
point we started making hypothesis about everything inspired (not based) on our data base and our descriptions and also
motivated by our belief in those fundamental hypothesis about the universe that say there may be other things that we can't perceive.

(To fit into somewhere) An explanation of something is a description of a set of things that describes that something in terms of
its own elements. 

Now is a good moment to distinguish three different kinds of hypothesis: all of them are intuitive guesses inspired by the data base and the set
of descriptions, but here we have the differences that actually define them:

- Empirical/Falsifiable Hypothesis: It's a guess based on the data base and the descriptions and that is supposedly to fit perfectly into
the current data base at any given time. So the empirical hytothesis/Falsifiable is just part of the theory as long as it can catch up
with current set of all information already gathered from the part of the universe corresponding to the scope of the theory. Therefore
such kind of hypothesis must be testable. 
So the Empirical Hypothesis is not only derived from the experimentation process, i.e., the observation/experimentation-recording-description process,
but also has to keep up with its growth.  

- Principles: It happens that the experimentaion process is actually based on other hypothesis. For example, that it is legit,
that this process itself makes sense, is logical. Basic logic is also a set of hypothesis like that. 
These hypothesis that serve as basis for legitimating the experimentation process are principles.
The principles are subject to testing but not directly through observation and experiments, but instead indirectly through the
testing of its consequences. Of course, as you yourself wrote in another place, sometimes its possible to determine without any
doubt the validity of something by its consequences, if, puted in a simple  way, all sets of possible consequences don't intersect with 
each other. But this is not normally the case in Science, where many different hypothesis are compatible with the data set and descriptions
and also yield as consequences many equal predictions about the growth of the data set and of the set of descriptions.      

- Dogmas: Well, Dogmas can't be components of Science. Dogmas are hypothesis that are not supposed to be subjected to testing by any
means. They are inspired by observation, by the recordings and by the descriptions, but they are not supposed to be put under any scope
of investigation. For example, the ideia of the existence of a male or female creator of the Universe is inspired by the several examples
of living creatures that are fathers or mothers and that create things and another people. By analogy, people often come up with
this sort of hypothese.     

It's just not true that every hypothesis in Science must be falsifiable. The principles are not subjected to direct tests and also are not necessary falsifiable by indirect tests, and
there are principles as fundamental parts of Science. As already said before, they can be tested indirectly by their sets of consequences and, possibly in some cases, be
fully legitimated or discarded when its consequences do not intersect with each other and can be all considered.   

Paradigm is the representation of an example/model/method/standard to be considered, followed, respected or not neglected during a process.

The Scientific Method is a model (so a paradigm) for systematizing the process of inquiry/investigation (generation of theories) iteratively generating, in loop, in three subsequent stages and in the following order, recordings of observations of
a phenomena, representations/descriptions of patterns found on these recordings and finally a ever changing set of hypothesis about the phenomena that, at any iteration, is coherent with
those patterns already found and which all logical implications are also coherent with the current set of known data and patterns.	 
Unfortunatly, even considering that all steps are implemented with perfection, it seems there's no garanties that this process
will always lead, at each iteraction, to a more acurate set of hypothesis. What is guaranteed here is that it is internaly coherent 
at any given time. In other words, the Scientific Method does not promote a continuous and linear path necessarily. 
But, once this process is coherent at all times, its representations/descriptions are always valid and reliable within the known 
limits of data gathered up to a iteration. And this is very handful for engeneering. People can invent all sort of devices utilizing
the relying on the current descriptions/representations, regardless of any of them being true or false withing a future broader scope
(more observations, experiments and data), if only they respect the current scope.  

Science is the process of generation theories each one built having the Scientific Method as a imutable paradigmn.

Acorddingly to my definitions, so far I can assert that a scientific theory cannot be proven wrong and be put out of the realm of science.
A theory, treated as a loop process of observation-description-hypothesis, as far as it respects the scientific method, it will
reject any hypothesis that do not fit into the data set at any given time, thus remaining the theory internally coherent.    

Some parts of Science or some subset of theories or even part of a theory in particular may be considered a mutable paradigm for
the rest of the set of another part of it. To this paradigms we can aplly the concept and practice of Paradigm Shift. Actually
a Paradigm Shift is not actually a distinct thing of each change made in some hyphothesis at any given time. What happens is that
there are really this more hard parts of a set that are much more less often put under the scope and subjected to change than 
other parts. This parts are usually used as guaranteed steps in order to propose new hypothesis. Once they are usually used
as bases in the build up of the set, they are considered paradigms of the set. But once they may be subject to change without
compromissing the essence of the whole process (differently of trying to change the paradigm of the Scientific Method),
they are mutable paradigms.
 
Of course science is based in reports, but only official reports, each one built from standarized, well-defined and recognized methods of observation, 
experimentation, systematization. It's not about the amount of reports you have, nor the importance or values the researcher has or may have, the 
the quality of each report, that even may be just one actually.

And of course, the scientific method may point to a wrong direction at any moment of its application, just as the result of a 
statistical analysis of a bunch of report of uncertain value. What differs one of another is that the scientific method has determined, at
any point, its own scope, the limitations of the meaning of its results. The latter method, conversely, can be a perfect representation
of reality or be total unrelated to it, it's just not possible to determine it once there are no known limits to the reports.  

Science is real for me now. At least it's becoming more real the think of it.
Science has its paradigms, the set of basic ideias of how to pursue the truth, i.e., how 
to build science.

One of its paradigms, a very used one, it the ideia that "Where there's fire, there's steam".
This paradigm differentiates science from other inquiry approches. And it is very handful. Assuming this principle,
we know that it rational to check all the places where there's smoke. There are no garanties that we will find fire, but for
sure there might not be fire where there's no steam. This translates into the fact that informal reports are usefull and the many
they are the better. Because they point to a hypothesis.
Of course that not all truths are perceivable in any circumstance but the ideia here is that one can just find something through signals.
Without a perceivable signal, no pursue for the truth seems to be possible. Then the principle "Where there's fire, there's steam" 
tell just this: If one wants the truths, he might look for signals. But, unfortunatelly, no matter how many signals we have, 
steam is not fire. It can happens at any moment that a just discovered new signal will mean there's no fire. And another one
can pop up saying that actually there fire, although there's also something else.

Dogmatic approaches generally assume an inverted fire-steam paradigm: Where there's steam, there's fire.

In life, there're the things we just know because we experience them directly and the things we can only 
use our intuition for. Science is usually more concerned with the latter.

E daí existe a arte, que é pra mim então a resposta a impossibilidade de se determinar a verdade. A arte é a representação e marca 
de uma vida que não se importa de saber a verdade, mas apenas de viver.

[22:56, 28/09/2020] Clodomir: Dei uma olhada aqui. É muito interessante. Não sei se bate exatamente com os três opções dele, mas nos meus devaneios recentes tenho sempre chegado a somente três formas de abordagem do conhecimento, todos nascidos da filosofia: Religião (como você apontou é baseado em Dogmas), Matemática (prova as coisas mas sustentado totalmente em axiomas) e a Ciência(que parece fundamentalmente sofrer com problema de ser um processo sem fim conhecido)
[22:57, 28/09/2020] Clodomir: Esse negócio da ciência não ter fim quero dizer que ela é um processo iterativo de gerar hipóteses e testar hipóteses. Uma hipótese só está absolutamente provada pela experiência quando todos os experimentos e dados forem coletados, certo?
[22:59, 28/09/2020] Clodomir: Como não parece ser possível prever o número máximo de tipos de fenômeno que podem ser descobertos, sempre vai haver o medo de que um novo aparece e destrua tudo ou que nunca aparece mas exista de qualquer forma e invalidade a teoria mais atual.
[23:03, 28/09/2020] Raniere New Number: Sim, o risco sempre tá aí. Mas ele não invalida a teoria atual. Ele só limita a teoria
[23:04, 28/09/2020] Clodomir: poxa é verdade...sempre tenho esquecido esse detalhe fundamental
[23:04, 28/09/2020] Clodomir: 😋
Mas no fim das contas, diante da verdadeira ambição da humanidade, que não é simplesmente ter
em mãos um conjunto de experimentos e hipóteses consistente, mas sim um conjunto de hipóteses
que sejam absolutamente consistentes com o universo inteiro, o braço científico da filosofia 
fall short. 


Redução de Dados:
